# Project Brief: Adventure Works Retail Sales Analysis
## Objective
You’re an analyst for an existing company, Adventure Works, a global retail network. Adventure Works already has very good sales, but they want to uncover more information about their sales patterns. Your task is to perform a structured data analysis to uncover insights and recommend actionable business.
## Context
The Adventure Works stakeholders are most interested in the variety of customers in their database along with their purchasing behaviors. They assume they can’t target everyone using the same methods, and they’re considering a targeted marketing strategy. They want to target different customers with applicable marketing campaigns to see whether they have an effect on the sale of their products. Your analysis will inform what this strategy might look like to ensure Adventure Works targets the right customer profiles with the appropriate products. The stakeholders would like to be able to answer the following key questions:
## Key Questions
•	High-Value Retention: Which customers have placed orders with a total amount greater than $10,000, and how can we prioritize them?

•	Revenue Drivers: What is the total revenue and order volume generated by each product category to identify the most profitable sectors?

•	Pricing Strategy: Which products are priced higher than the global average, and what is their market share?

•	Regional Performance: How many customers have placed orders in Canada, and which products have been ordered in key territories such as the United States and Australia?

•	Operational Efficiency: Which 10 products have been returned the most, and what is the financial impact of these returns on the business?

•	Customer Loyalty:

o	What is the distribution of customer occupations for those who placed orders after 2021?

o	Which customers are shopping across more than one territory, suggesting a high degree of mobility?

o	Can we identify the "Top 50" customers by revenue in 2022 for an exclusive email outreach campaign?
## Stakeholders
•	Vice President of Marketing: “We’re always looking into improving our targeting for ad campaigns”.

•	Senior Vice President of Sales: “We need to know what part of our offering has the lowest market share and why. Based on this input, we could improve this sector and boost sales”.

•	Adventure Works Customer: “I want to receive ads, promotions, and recommendations that are relevant to the products I order regularly”.
## Data
Throughout this project, you’ll be using a number of relational data sets from Adventure Works. While each data set contains a different kind of information, they all include common identifiers.

•	Customers Data Set: Demographic and profile information.

•	Sales Data (2020-2022): Detailed transactional records.

•	Product and Category Data: Specifications, price points, and hierarchies.

•	Returns and Territory Data: Records of returns and geographic regional data.
## Analysis Criteria
•	Project structure: Folder follows industry standards in terms of naming conventions.

•	SQL Analysis: Should be conducted using structured queries to create business-ready Views.

•	Visualization: Should be conducted using Power BI to communicate insights to stakeholders.

•	Data Cleaning: Duplicate data, missing data, and relational integrity should be checked.

•	Final Report: Should include methodology, clear answers to the questions in this brief, and recommendations for Adventure Works stakeholders.
## Project Deliverables
•	SQL Scripts: A file containing the 15 primary business intelligence queries.

•	Power BI Report: A report showing sales and return trends.

•	Strategic Presentation: A report summarizing insights and recommendations for executive stakeholders.


